docs/index.en.md, before:

---
hide:
  - navigation
  - toc
---

# Collecting and exploring usage analytics

## Why ?

Most websites and ecommerce sites collect usage data to analyze the visitors demeanor around their site. It tells you what pages are viewed most often, how much time they spent on it etc.It provides valuable information about  website.

It is as much important for an SDI, if not more. We invest much time and effort in preparing, publishing our datasets, making beautiful maps. We need to know the usage that is done of them. And often, we also need to report to management that the time and effort we spent was indeed worth it.

## What ?

This work provides you with instructions about how to set up an environment where a standard set of usage data will be collected, stored and displayed are dashboards.

It also lays some ground work, a framework on which you will be able to build, add more collected data, dajust the settings to your infrastructure.

For now, the collection of the usage data only relies on the access logs. In the future, it will be completed by additional usage data that access logs can't provide (e.g. actions from single page applications).


![overview](d2/overview.svg)
TODO: recreate this graph with real analytics dash

Commit message:

doc: Add note about this doc being WIP

docs/index.en.md, after:

---
hide:
  - navigation
  - toc
---

# Collecting and exploring usage analytics


!!! note "Note"

    This documentation is still a work in progress. It documents the analytics _next generation_ module, in development in 2025.



## Why ?

Most websites and ecommerce sites collect usage data to analyze the visitors demeanor around their site. It tells you what pages are viewed most often, how much time they spent on it etc.It provides valuable information about  website.

It is as much important for an SDI, if not more. We invest much time and effort in preparing, publishing our datasets, making beautiful maps. We need to know the usage that is done of them. And often, we also need to report to management that the time and effort we spent was indeed worth it.

## What ?

This work provides you with instructions about how to set up an environment where a standard set of usage data will be collected, stored and displayed are dashboards.

It also lays some ground work, a framework on which you will be able to build, add more collected data, dajust the settings to your infrastructure.

For now, the collection of the usage data only relies on the access logs. In the future, it will be completed by additional usage data that access logs can't provide (e.g. actions from single page applications).


![overview](d2/overview.svg)
TODO: recreate this graph with real analytics dash
